So it's time for us to get hands on and
to tackle our first challenge.
And this is gonna involve some of the new
language features that we just discussed.
In particular,
we're gonna see template literal types,
we'll see some key remapping.
And, should be a good opportunity for
us to sort of kick the tires on
these things if you haven't had a chance
to use them in your project yet.
So, here is the challenge.
I want us to build a data store.
So what I mean by this is just a class
that holds records of particular types.
And so let's say this is for
a media library of some kind, so
we have a movie and we have a song.
And you can see like there's this
base interface with an ID and
then movies in addition to
the ID they have a director, and
songs in addition to an ID they
have a property called singer.
So they're a little bit different.
But we want something that allows
us to get a list of all the songs,
all the movies.
It allows us to clear those lists out,
it allows us to get something by ID.
So that's what data store
is going to turn into.
Now, to normally that would be a fairly
straightforward ask maybe a little
bit too easy of a problem.
What I want us to do is solve
this problem in a way where
this type is kind of the source of
truth for what we are managing.
Meaning, if I were to add, let's say,
painting to this list and
add a new painting type up here.
I would expect some type
errors to show us, look,
you're supposed to have this convention
where you have these methods on a per
resource basis and
they should be named a particular way.
I would want some sort of enforcement
through the use of interfaces, right?
That there is this contract and each
type of entity this data store managers,
it has to have the get the list of them.
It has to have the clear the list thing,
and it has to have get by ID, okay?
So, here's an example of usage.
We create our new data store, we can see
we're able to add songs, add movies.
We can get a song or get a movie by ID.
We can get the list, get all and
then we can clear the list.
And you'll end up implementing these
directly in your data store class.
It is a trap to try to
get too clever with this,
try to make everything generic,
maybe try some object defined property
backflips to sort of programmatically
build this kind of thing up.
Don't go there, we're not looking for
programmatic assembly of this data store.
We're looking to have great type checking.
That's the point here,
great enforcement of this contract.
So, here are some requirements.
If you miss name a method on the class,
meaning you deviate from this convention,
you see here we've got get all songs,
get all movies.
But let's say instead of that method name,
you said get songs,
we should see a type error and
it should be somewhere reasonably
close to where that problem
needs to be addressed.
If we add a new type of media
to our data entity map,
in this case I think I said painting
before a comic would also do.
And make no other changes to your
solution, you should see type errors
that tell you hey, data store is
supposed to have these methods on it.
So this kind of change should light
some things up and you should see, hey,
we're supposed to have this convention,
we need to implement some things here.
Pro tip, just make sure there are no other
externally visible properties on the data
store because one of the test in the test
suite checks for a set of method names.
And that test will fail if you
have extra stuff in there.
Your coach it obviously passed
the test suite and type-check.
And I think that's it.
So, in terms of how to set this up,
here's some instructions.
Clone the repo, enter it.
Install Volta, if you haven't already,
it's not mandatory,
but it will rule out some potential
problems you could run into.
This is the complete instruction for
setting up Volta on a POSIX compliant
operating system like Mac OS or Linux.
And the job of Volta is to make
sure that you're using the same
package manager and
node versions that everyone else is using.
So if you've used like nvm,
this is a modern version of that.
So then you're gonna
install your dependencies,
move to the directory in
which this challenge exists.
You should be able to run Yarn test.
And then here is the file that
you're going to be working with.
So I'm gonna go through the steps
right now in front of you so
you can see what that looks like.
If you run into trouble, here are hints.
There links to concepts that
are involved in this solution.
I'm not trying to lead you
directly toward the key idea here,
but my solution involves these things.
So if you're stuck, take a look at those.
So with that, I'll show you where
to go to start your problem.
So I've just checked out the project,
now I'm gonna run Yarn to make sure
I've installed all my dependencies.
And then the location of this
challenge is in challenges data layer.
So let's go there.
And then in here you should
be able to run Yarn test,
you should see a bunch of tests fail.
And in fact we do.
Here's the code that you should be
modifying, it's in source, index TS.
And you shouldn't need to change
any of this stuff up here.
This is sort of just
the court date entities.
In fact, you shouldn't really need to
change this much except to experiment
with whether adding that comic
media type works, right?
Everything else you can
just do within data store.
Again, don't try to get too
clever with making data store,
generate over the data entity map.
It's okay for
us to hard code that aspect of things.
That's not the point of what
we're trying to do here.